{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red159\green159\blue159;\red250\green171\blue31;\red96\green96\blue96;
\red76\green76\blue76;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c68627\c68627\c68627;\cssrgb\c98824\c72157\c15294;\cssrgb\c45098\c45098\c45098;
\cssrgb\c36863\c36863\c36863;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs49\fsmilli24800 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Why ML ?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\fs27\fsmilli13800 \cf2 Machine learning is revolutionizing almost every industry, starting from agriculture to cancer diagnosis in healthcare. It has transformed the way traditional business organizations operate and boosted their growth in no time. Recently, the gaming industry has also adopted machine learning algorithms to make video games more engaging. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.analyticsinsight.net/top-10-online-coding-courses-for-kids-and-teens-to-learn-in-2021/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 ML}} is used at high-speed game development. It is a powerful tool for game developers to create more realistic worlds, fascinating challenges, and unique content. Sadly, the use of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.analyticsinsight.net/10-ways-machine-learning-can-transform-supply-chain-management/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 ML}} in game development is still in its infancy and has not been hitting the headlines in the same way. In this article, we talk about the different ways in which machine learning has revolutionized video game development.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \'95 Modeling complex systems:
\f0\b0  A machine learning algorithm\'92s strength is its ability to model complex systems. Video game developers are relentlessly trying to make gaming more immersive and realistic. Indeed, modeling the real world is extremely difficult, but ML algorithms can help create these complex models that players cannot control.\

\f1\b \'95 Realistic interactions:
\f0\b0  One of the major challenges in game development is building a realistic virtual world to help players interact with NPCs. Implementing NLP could allow users to talk out loud to in-game characters and get real responses. It will be like talking to Siri, Alexa, or Google Assistant.\

\f1\b \'95 Dynamic audio edits
\f0\b0 : Some parts of the game development outline can be incredibly time-consuming and difficult to change after being produced. Also, speech generation with machine learning can help patch changed audio to allow script changes or insert the player\'92s name into pre-recorded dialogue. In the long run, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.analyticsinsight.net/top-5-universities-engaging-in-ai-and-ml-research-in-2021/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 AI}} voice actors could even replace real-life actors, especially for secondary characters.\

\f1\b \'95 Personalized user content:
\f0\b0  Machine learning technologies provide fascinating opportunities to build systems that can be used directly by users to generate content that fits in with the style of the game itself. They introduce opportunities to the players to take photos of themselves and add them to the games according to their likeness.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf4 \'95 ML algorithms playing as NPCs:
\f3\b0  Currently, opponents in a video game are pre-scripted NPCs (non-playable characters), whereas a machine learning NPC could allow users to play against less predictable foes, making the game much more interesting. Companies are already working on early applications of machine learning in NPCs. The algorithms can train the NPC players four times faster than reinforcement training alone.\

\f2\b \'95 Dynamic universe creation:
\f3\b0  Most of the popular video games in the industry are open-world games that allow the players to interact with the environment. But creating this interface takes a lot of time to be perfect and consists of repetitive and unessential tasks. This time-taking process has become efficient after the implementation of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.analyticsinsight.net/top-10-c-frameworks-for-machine-learning-in-2021/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 ML}} as it has reduced manifold, and the developers can utilize the time for more creative activities.\

\f2\b \'95 More engaging mobile games:
\f3\b0  Mobile games have contributed to 50% of the revenue generated by video games. The scope of these games is limited because of the hardware of smartphones. But after the implementation of AI and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.analyticsinsight.net/top-open-source-datasets-to-train-machine-learning-models-in-2021/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 ML}} integrated chips into smartphones, this situation has started to change.\

\f2\b \'95 Can adjust difficulty levels as per the players\'92 preferences
\f3\b0 : Another virtue of ML-designed video games is player-experience modeling, which means providing tailor-made experiences to players as per their levels of expertise. So, if the player is a beginner, the ML algorithm will adjust the difficulty level to easy mode so that the player does not get frustrated.\

\f2\b \'95 Assisted artwork generation:
\f3\b0  Games generally consists of several assets that are all produced similarly. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.analyticsinsight.net/top-dataops-funding-and-investments-in-2021/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 ML}}techniques can help optimize workflows so that the artists can spend more time on the creative parts of their work and manage less time on the mechanical parts.\

\f2\b \'95 Enhancing developer skills:
\f3\b0  The traditional video game developers can skill up their ML techniques with the growing demand in the industry. The technologies and innovation taking up the game development industry will include machine learning. Therefore, game designers can practice both to become more efficient.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf5 \
}